 Manual No: 577014-367 • Revision: F 

## Startup Guide 

# QuickServer Industrial Protocol Gateway 


ii 

## Notice 

Veeder-Root makes no warranty of any kind with regard to this publication, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of 

merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. 

**Veeder-Root shall not be liable for errors contained herein or for incidental or consequential damages in** 

**connection with the furnishing, performance, or use of this publication.** 

Veeder-Root reserves the right to change system options or features, or the information contained in this publication. 

This publication contains proprietary information which is protected by copyright. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be 

photocopied, reproduced, or translated to another language without the prior written consent of Veeder-Root. 

Contact TLS Systems Technical Support for additional troubleshooting information at 800-323-1799. 

**DAMAGE CLAIMS / LOST EQUIPMENT** 

Thoroughly examine all components and units as soon as they are received. If any cartons are damaged or missing, write a complete 

and detailed description of the damage or shortage on the face of the freight bill. The carrier's agent must verify the inspection and sign 

the description. Refuse only the damaged product, not the entire shipment. 

Veeder-Root must be notified of any damages and/or shortages within 30 days of receipt of the shipment, as stated in our Terms and 

Conditions. 

**VEEDER-ROOT’S PREFERRED CARRIER** 

1. Contact Veeder-Root Customer Service at 800-873-3313 with the specific part numbers and quantities that were missing or 

 received damaged. 

2. Fax signed Bill of Lading (BOL) to Veeder-Root Customer Service at 800-234-5350. 

3. Veeder-Root will file the claim with the carrier and replace the damaged/missing product at no charge to the customer. Customer 

 Service will work with production facility to have the replacement product shipped as soon as possible. 

**CUSTOMER’S PREFERRED CARRIER** 

1. It is the customer’s responsibility to file a claim with their carrier. 

2. Customer may submit a replacement purchase order. Customer is responsible for all charges and freight associated with 

 replacement order. Customer Service will work with production facility to have the replacement product shipped as soon as possible. 

3. If “lost” equipment is delivered at a later date and is not needed, Veeder-Root will allow a Return to Stock without a restocking fee. 

4. Veeder-Root will NOT be responsible for any compensation when a customer chooses their own carrier. 

**RETURN SHIPPING** 

For the parts return procedure, please follow the appropriate instructions in the "General Returned Goods Policy” pages in the 

"Policies and Literature" section of the Veeder-Root **North American Environmental Products** price list. Veeder-Root will not 

accept any return product without a Return Goods Authorization (RGA) number clearly printed on the outside of the package. 

©Veeder-Root 2021. All rights reserved. 


_Table of Contents_ 

 iii 

###### Introduction 

 Contractor Certification Requirements ..............................................................................1 Safety Precautions ............................................................................................................1 Safety Warnings ...............................................................................................................2 Related Documents ..........................................................................................................2 Precautions Against Static Electricity ................................................................................2 QuickServer Gateway. ......................................................................................................3 

###### Quick Start Guide .......................................................................................................... 4 

###### Setup For QuickServer 

 Record Identification Data ................................................................................................5 Point Count Capacity And Registers Per Device ..............................................................5 Input COM Settings on the device connected to the QuickServer ....................................6 Selecting The Desired Protocol Configuration ..................................................................6 BMS Network Settings: MAC Address Node-ID And Baud Rate ......................................7 BACnet MS/TP: Setting The MAC Address For BMS Network ................................7 Modbus RTU And Modbus TCP/IP: Setting The Node-ID........................................7 BACnet MS/TP Or Modbus RTU: Setting The Baud Rate For BMS Network ..........8 

###### Interfacing QuickServer To Devices 

 QuickServer ProtoNode Showing Connection Ports .........................................................9 Device Connections To QuickServer ................................................................................9 QuickServer 6-Pin Phoenix Connector.....................................................................9 Serial Network Wiring Field Port To RS-485 Network ............................................10 Power Up QuickServer ...................................................................................................11 

###### Using QuickServer Web Configurator To Setup The Gateway 

 Connect The PC To QuickServer Via The Ethernet Port ................................................12 Connecting to QuickServer Web Configurator ................................................................13 Selecting Profiles for Devices Connected to QuickServer ..............................................13 Setting BACnet Parameters ............................................................................................15 Ethernet Network Setting IP Address For Field Network ..............................................17 

###### How To Start The Installation Over: Clearing Profiles 

 BACnet EXPLORER NG ................................................................................................19 

###### Appendix A: Troubleshooting 

 Lost Or Incorrect IP Address ............................................................................................1 Viewing Diagnostic Information ........................................................................................2 Check Wiring And Settings ...............................................................................................2 LED Diagnostics For Communications Between QuickServer And Devices ....................3 Take Diagnostic Capture With The FieldServer Toolbox ..................................................4 Update Firmware ..............................................................................................................5 Unknown Alarm Category .................................................................................................5 Securing QuickServer With Passwords ............................................................................5 

###### Appendix B: Vendor Information – Veeder-Root 

 Interface To BACnet & Modbus Tables ............................................................................1 

###### Appendix C: “A” Bank DIP Switch Settings 

###### Appendix D: Reference 

 Specifications ....................................................................................................................1 


_Table of Contents_ 

 iv 

 Compliance With UL Regulations .....................................................................................1 Certifications BTL Mark BACnet® Testing Laboratory .................................................2 

#### Figures 

 Figure 1. QuickServer ProtoNode Connectivity Diagram (TLS450PLUS Shown) .............. 3 Figure 2. QuickServer S Bank (Profile Selections) DIP Switches ....................................... 6 Figure 3. QuickServer A Bank DIP Switches ...................................................................... 7 Figure 4. QuickServer B Bank DIP Switches ...................................................................... 8 Figure 5. QuickServer ProtoNode Connections .................................................................. 9 Figure 6. QuickServer ATG RS-232 and Power Inputs .................................................... 10 Figure 7. QuickServer Connection To RS-485 Field Network .......................................... 10 Figure 8. QuickServer RS-485 BMS Network EOL Switch Settings ................................. 10 Figure 9. Assigning Static IP Address To The PC ............................................................ 12 Figure 10. Web Configurator Showing No Active Profiles .................................................. 14 Figure 11. Web Configurator Showing Available Profiles For Selection ............................. 14 Figure 12. Web Configurator Showing Active Profile Additions .......................................... 15 Figure 13. Web Configurator with Protocol Set to BACnet ................................................. 16 Figure 14. Web Configurator Screen With Active Profiles .................................................. 17 Figure 15. Changing IP Address Via FS-GUI ..................................................................... 18 Figure 16. BACnet Explorer NG On A BACnet Network ..................................................... 19 Figure A-1. Ethernet Port Location ..................................................................................... A-1 Figure A-2. Check IP Address ............................................................................................ A-1 Figure A-3. Error Messages Screen ................................................................................... A-2 Figure A-4. Ethernet Port Location ..................................................................................... A-3 Figure A-5. FS Toolbox Utility Screen ................................................................................ A-4 Figure A-6. FS-GUI Passwords Page ................................................................................. A-6 Figure A-7. Password Recovery Page ............................................................................... A-6 

#### Tables 

 Table 1. QuickServer Part Number ......................................................................................5 Table 2. Registers Per Device ..............................................................................................5 Table 3. COM Settings .........................................................................................................6 Table 4. Profile Settings For QuickServer ............................................................................6 Table 5. BMS Baud Rate ......................................................................................................8 Table 6. QuickServer Current Draw ..................................................................................11 Table A-1. Diagnostic LED Descriptions .............................................................................. A-3 Table B-1. System Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus ................................... B-1 Table B-2. Unknown_Type Veeder-Root Interface Mappings To BACnet & Modbus .......... B-1 Table B-3. Tank Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus ....................................... B-2 Table B-4. Liquid Sensor Veeder-Root Interface Mappings To BACnet And Modbus ......... B-2 Table B-5. Input Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus ....................................... B-3 Table B-6. Type A Sensor Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus ....................... B-3 Table B-7. Type B Sensor Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus ....................... B-3 Table B-8. Vapor Sensor Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus ......................... B-3 Table B-9. Groundwater Sensor Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus .............. B-3 Table B-10. MAG Sensor Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus ........................... B-4 Table B-11. Smart Sensor Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus ......................... B-4 Table B-12. PLLD Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus ...................................... B-4 Table C-1. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 1-25 .............................................. C-1 Table C-2. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 26-50 ............................................ C-2 Table C-3. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 51 75 .......................................... C-3 


_Table of Contents_ 

 v 

Table C-4. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 76 100 ........................................ C-4 

Table C-5. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 101-125 ........................................ C-5 

Table C-6. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 126 150 ...................................... C-6 

Table C-7. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 151 175 ...................................... C-7 

Table C-8. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 176 200 ...................................... C-8 

Table C-9. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 201 225 ...................................... C-9 

Table C-10. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 226-255 ......................................C-10 

Table D-1. QuickServer ProtoNode Specifications .............................................................. D-1 


 1 

##### Introduction 

The QuickServer is an external, high performance building automation multi-protocol gateway that is preconfigured 

to automatically communicate between Veeder-Root’s products (hereafter called “device”) connected to the 

QuickServer and automatically configures them for BACnet MS/TP, BACnet/IP, Modbus RTU and Modbus TCP/IP. 

It is not necessary to download any configuration files to support the required applications. The QuickServer is 

pre-loaded with tested profiles/configurations for the supported devices. 

The QuickServer ProtoNode is compatible with: 

TLS-3XX Consoles hardware/software requirements: 

- RS-232/RS-485 Dual Interface Module 

TLS-4XX Consoles hardware/software requirements: 

- RS-232/RS-485 Dual Interface Module 

###### Contractor Certification Requirements 

Veeder-Root requires the following minimum training certifications for contractors who will install and setup the 

equipment discussed in this manual: 

**Service Technician Certification (Previously known as Level 2/3):** Contractors holding valid Technician 

Certifications are approved to perform installation checkout, startup, programming and operations training, system 

tests, troubleshooting and servicing for all Veeder-Root Series Tank Monitoring Systems, including Line Leak 

Detection. 

**TLS-3xx Technician Certification:** Contractors holding valid TLS-350 Technician Certifications are approved to 

perform installation checkout, startup, programming and operations training, troubleshooting and servicing for all 

Veeder-Root TLS-300 or TLS-350 Series Tank Monitoring Systems, including Line Leak Detection and associated 

accessories. 

**TLS-4xx Technician Certification:** Contractors holding valid TLS-450 Technician Certifications are approved to 

perform installation checkout, startup, programming and operations training, troubleshooting and servicing for all 

Veeder-Root TLS-450 Series Tank Monitoring Systems, including Line Leak Detection and associated accessories. 

**Warranty Registrations** may only be submitted by selected Distributors. 

###### Safety Precautions 

The following safety symbols may be used throughout this manual to alert you to important safety hazards and precautions 

 EXPLOSIVE Fuels and their vapors are extremely explosive if ignited. 

 FLAMMABLE Fuels and their vapors are extremely flammable. 

 ELECTRICITY High voltage exists in, and is supplied to, the device. A potential shock hazard exists. 

 TURN POWER OFF Live power to a device creates a potential shock hazard. Turn Off power to the device and associated accessories when servicing the unit. 

 OFF 


 Introduction Safety Warnings 

 2 

###### Safety Warnings 

###### Related Documents 

576013-879 TLS-3XX Console Site Prep And Installation Manual 

577014-073 TLS-450PLUS Console Site Prep And Installation Manual 

577013-879 TLS-450 Console Site Prep And Installation Manual 

577014-110 TLS-450PLUS/TLS4 Operator’s Manual 

###### Precautions Against Static Electricity 

If necessary to install electronic components in the ATG to implement this feature, read the following static 

electricity precautions: 

1. Before handling any components, discharge your body's static electric charge by touching a grounded surface. 

2. Do not remove parts from their anti-static bags until you are ready to install them. 

3. Do not lay parts on the anti-static bags! Only the insides are anti-static. 

4. When handling parts, hold them by their edges and their metal mounting brackets. 

5. Avoid touching comm board components or edge connectors that plug into slots when handling. 

6. Never slide parts over any surface. 

7. Avoid plastic, vinyl, and Styrofoam in your work area. 

 Indicates a hazardous situation which, if not avoided, could result in death or serious injury. 

 READ ALL RELATED MANUALS Knowledge of all related procedures before you begin work is important. Read and understand all manuals thoroughly. If you do not understand a procedure, ask someone who does. 

### WARNING 

 This console contains high voltages which can be lethal. It is also connected to low power devices that must be kept intrinsically safe. 

 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE FOLLOWING WARNINGS AND SAFETY PRECAUTIONS COULD CAUSE DAMAGE TO PROPERTY, ENVIRONMENT, RESULTING IN SERIOUS INJURY OR DEATH. 

**1. Turn off and tag power at the circuit breaker. Do not connect the console AC**     **power supply wires at the breaker until all devices are connected.** 

**2. Attach conduit from the power panel to the console's Power Area knockouts**     **only.** 

**3. Comply with all applicable codes including: the National Electrical Code;**     **federal, state, and local codes; and other applicable safety codes.** 

 Connecting power wires to a live circuit can cause electrical shock that may result in serious injury or death. 

 Routing conduit for power wires into the intrinsically safe compartment can result in fire or explosion resulting in serious injury or death. 

 WARNING 

 OFF 


 3 

 Introduction QuickServer Gateway. 

###### QuickServer Gateway. 

 Figure 1. QuickServer ProtoNode Connectivity Diagram (TLS450PLUS Shown) 


 4 

##### Quick Start Guide 

1. Record the information about the unit. ( page 5) 

2. Set the device’s COM settings for each of the devices that are to connect to the QuickServer. ( page 6) 

3. Select the protocol configuration on the S Bank DIP switches. ( page 6) 

4. BACnet MS/TP: Set the MAC Address on the A Bank DIP switches. ( page 7) 

5. Modbus RTU or Modbus TCP/IP: Set the Node-ID. ( page 7) 

6. BACnet MS/TP or Modbus RTU: Set the baud rate of the field protocol on the B Bank DIP switches. ( 

page 8) 

7. Connect the QuickServer 6-pin RS-232 connector to the Veeder-Root ATG. ( page 9) 

8. Connect the QuickServer ProtoNode 3 pin RS-485 port to the field protocol cabling. ( page 10) 

9. Connect power to the QuickServer 6-pin connector. ( page 11) 

10.Use a web browser to access the QuickServer Web Configurator page to select the profiles of the devices 

attached to the QuickServer and input the Node-ID from each device. Once the devices are selected, the 

QuickServer automatically builds and loads the appropriate configuration. ( page 12) 

11.BACnet MS/TP or BACnet/IP: Set the BACnet Device Instance. ( page 15) 

12.Ethernet Network: Use a web browser to access the QuickServer Web Configurator page to change the IP 

Address. No changes to the configuration are necessary. ( page 17) 

##### 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

###### 10 

###### 11 

###### 12 


 5 

##### Setup For QuickServer 

###### Record Identification Data 

 The QuickServer has a unique part number located on the side or the back of the unit. This number should be recorded, as it may be required for technical support. The numbers are as follows: 

QuickServer ProtoNode units have the following 3 ports: RS-232 , Ethernet and RS-485. 

###### Point Count Capacity And Registers Per Device 

 The total number of points presented by the device attached to the QuickServer ProtoNode-1504 cannot exceed 5000. 

The total number of points per QuickServer profile is shown in Table 2: 

 Table 1. QuickServer Part Number 

 Model Part Number 

 QuickServer ProtoNode 330020-840 / 330020-841 

 Table 2. Registers Per Device 

 Profile Points Per Device 

 System 29 

 Unknown Type 3 

 Tank 56 

 Liquid Sensor 9 

 Input 6 

 Type A Sensor 5 

 Type B Sensor 6 

 Vapor Sensor 9 

 Groundwater Sensor 9 

 MAG Sensor 14 

 Smart Sensor 17 

 PLLD 19 

##### 1 


 Setup For QuickServer Input COM Settings on the device connected to the QuickServer 

 6 

###### Input COM Settings on the device connected to the QuickServer 

**-** The connected serial device MUST have the same baud rate, data bits, stop bits, and parity settings as the     QuickServer. 

**-** To set the QuickServer’s COM settings, See “Connecting to QuickServer Web Configurator” on page 13. 

**-** Table 3 specifies the device serial port settings required to communicate with the QuickServer. 

###### Selecting The Desired Protocol Configuration 

 QuickServer ProtoNode units use the ‘S’ bank of DIP switches (S0 S3) to select the protocol configuration (see Figure 2 ). 

 Figure 2. QuickServer S Bank (Profile Selections) DIP Switches 

See Table 4 for the S Bank DIP switch settings. 

 Table 3. COM Settings 

 Port Setting TLS-3XX/TLS4XX 

 Protocol V-R Interface 

 Baud Rate 9600 

 Parity Odd 

 Data Bits 7 

 Stop Bits 1 

 Table 4. Profile Settings For QuickServer 

 QuickServer ProtoNode S Bank DIP Switches 

 Profile S0 S1 S2 S3 

 BACnet/IP Off Off Off Off 

 BACnet MS/TP On Off Off Off 

##### 2 

##### 3 

 S0 

 S1 

 S2 

 S3 

 Off On 

S0 S3 DIP Switches Bank DIP Switch Location 

 When setting DIP switches, ensure that power to the board is OFF. 

 NOTICE 


 7 

 Setup For QuickServer BMS Network Settings: MAC Address Node-ID And Baud Rate 

###### BMS Network Settings: MAC Address Node-ID And Baud Rate 

**BACNET MS/TP: SETTING THE MAC ADDRESS FOR BMS NETWORK** 

**-** Only 1 MAC Address is set for QuickServer regardless of how many devices are connected to QuickServer. 

**-** Set the BACnet MS/TP MAC Address of the QuickServer to a value between 1 to 127 (Primary MAC Address);     this is so that the BMS front end can find QuickServer via BACnet Auto-Discovery. 

 Never set a BACnet MS/TP MAC Address of the QuickServer to a value from 128 to 255. Addresses from 128 to 255 are Secondary Addresses and can not be discovered by BMS front ends that support Auto-Discovery of BACnet MS/TP devices. 

**-** Set “A” bank DIP switches A0 – A7 to assign a MAC Address to the QuickServer for BACnet MS/TP (see     Figure 3 ). 

 Figure 3. QuickServer A Bank DIP Switches 

**-** Refer to Appendix C for the complete range of MAC Addresses and DIP switch settings. 

**MODBUS RTU AND MODBUS TCP/IP: SETTING THE NODE-ID** 

**-** The Modbus RTU and Modbus TCP/IP Node-IDs are assigned by setting the A-bank dip switches. (see     Figure 3 ). 

**-** Node-ID’s range from 1-255. Refer to Appendix C for the full range of addresses for setting Node-ID. 

 Modbus TCP/IP and Modbus RTU 

 Off On Off Off 

 Table 4. Profile Settings For QuickServer (Continued) 

 QuickServer ProtoNode S Bank DIP Switches 

 Profile S0 S1 S2 S3 

##### 4 

 NOTICE 

A0 A7 DIP Switches Bank DIP Switch Location 

 A0 

 A1 

 A2 

 A3 

 A4 

 A5 

 A6 

 A7 

 Off On 

 When setting DIP switches, ensure that power to the board is OFF. 

 NOTICE 

##### 5 


 Setup For QuickServer BMS Network Settings: MAC Address Node-ID And Baud Rate 

 8 

**BACNET MS/TP OR MODBUS RTU: SETTING THE BAUD RATE FOR BMS NETWORK** 

 DIP switches B0 – B3 can be used to set the field baud rate of the QuickServer to match the baud rate required by the BMS for BACnet MS/TP (see Figure 4 ). 

 Figure 4. QuickServer B Bank DIP Switches 

BMS baud rate dip switch selections are shown in Table 5. 

. 

*Factory default setting. 

 Table 5. BMS Baud Rate 

 Baud Rate B0 B1 B2 B3 

 9600 On On On Off 

 19200 Off Off Off On 

 38400* On On Off On 

 57600 Off Off On On 

 76800 On Off On On 

##### 6 

B0 B3 DIP Switches Bank DIP Switch Location 

 B0 

 B1 

 B2 

 B3 

 Off On 

 When setting DIP switches, ensure that power to the board is OFF. 

 NOTICE 


 9 

##### Interfacing QuickServer To Devices 

###### QuickServer ProtoNode Showing Connection Ports 

 Figure 5. QuickServer ProtoNode Connections 

###### Device Connections To QuickServer 

**QUICKSERVER 6-PIN PHOENIX CONNECTOR** 

**-** Pins 1 - 3 are for Veeder-Root ATG input (see Figure 6 ). 

**-** Pins 4 - 6 are for QuickServer power. QuickServer accepts either 9-30V DC or 12-24V AC on pins 4 and 5. 

**Do not power up QuickServer at this time.** 

 Phoenix Connector 

##### 7 

 NOTICE 


 Interfacing QuickServer To Devices Device Connections To QuickServer 

 10 

 Figure 6. QuickServer ATG RS-232 and Power Inputs 

**SERIAL NETWORK WIRING FIELD PORT TO RS-485 NETWORK** 

**-** Connect the RS-485 network wires to the 3-pin RS-485 connector on QuickServer ProtoNode as shown in     Figure 7. 

 Figure 7. QuickServer Connection To RS-485 Field Network 

**-** See “Ethernet Network - Setting IP Address For Field Network” on page 17. for information on connecting to     BACnet/IP network. 

**-** If the QuickServer is the last device on the trunk, then the End-Of-Line Termination Switch needs to be set to     the **On** position (the EOL Termination **default setting is Off** ). If necessary, set the switch to the On position     (see Figure 8 ). 

 Figure 8. QuickServer RS-485 BMS Network EOL Switch Settings 

 Pin 3 Rx/Pin 2 Tx/+ Pin 5 GND 

 Pin 3 Rx/Pin 2 Tx/+ Pin 7 GND Power In (+) 

 Power In (-) 

 Frame Ground (must be connected) 

 Pin 1 Pin 6 

 (If 25 Pin) (If 9 Pin) 

 Power Input 

 Use standard grounding principles for RS-232 GND. 

 NOTICE 

 Console RS-232 Connector 

##### 8 

RS-485 (+) 

 RS-485 (-) RS-485 GND 

 BMS Input 

**Pin 3 Pin 1** 

###### Off (Default) 

###### On 

###### EOL Switch 


 11 

 Interfacing QuickServer To Devices Power Up QuickServer 

###### Power Up QuickServer 

Verify QuickServer nominal power requirements in Table 6. 

 These values are ‘nominal’ and a safety margin should be added to the power supply of the host system. A safety margin of 25% is recommended. 

After verifying power source and with frame ground connected as shown in Figure 6. apply power to QuickServer. 

 Table 6. QuickServer Current Draw 

 QuickServer ProtoNode 

 Current Draw 

 12V DC/AC 24V DC/AC 30V DC 

 Typical 170 mA 100 mA‘ 80 mA 

 Maximum 240 mA 140 mA 100 mA 

##### 9 

 NOTICE 


 12 

##### Using QuickServer Web Configurator To Setup The Gateway 

###### Connect The PC To QuickServer Via The Ethernet Port 

**-** Connect a CAT5 Ethernet cable (Straight through or Cross-Over) between the local PC and QuickServer. 

**-** The Default IP Address of QuickServer is 192.168.1.24, subnet mask is 255.255.255.0. If the PC and     QuickServer are on different IP Networks, assign a static IP Address to the PC on the 192.168.1.xxx network: 

 For Windows 10, Right click on. Then click on Network Connections>Change Adapter Options. Double click on Local Area Connections. When the Local Area Connections Status box appears click Properties. Click on Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPv4) then click Properties. When the Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/ IPv4) Properties dialog box appears, click, ‘Use the following IP address’ radio button and enter the ‘IP address’ and ‘Subnet mask’ entries shown in Figure 9 , the click the OK button , then the Close buttons to exit. 

 Figure 9. Assigning Static IP Address To The PC 

###### 10 


 13 

 Using QuickServer Web Configurator To Setup The Gateway Connecting to QuickServer Web Configurator 

After disconnecting from the QuickServer return to the PC’s Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPv4) Properties 

dialog box and click the Obtain an IP Address Automatically’ radio button to return the PC to its original Local Area 

Connection settings. 

###### Connecting to QuickServer Web Configurator 

After setting a local PC on the same subnet as the QuickServer (refer to above paragraph), open a web browser 

on the PC and enter the IP Address of the QuickServer (the default address is 192.168.1.24). 

 If the IP Address of the QuickServer was changed, the assigned IP Address can be discovered using the FS Toolbox utility. See ‘Lost Or Incorrect IP Address’ (Appendix A, page A-1) for instructions. 

 If prompted for a username and password, the default username is “admin” and the password is printed on the label of the unit. 

###### Selecting Profiles for Devices Connected to QuickServer 

**-** In the Web Configurator, the Active Profiles are shown below the Configuration Parameters. 

**-** Fill in the parameter values as needed. 

**-** Enter the Veeder-Root PLC Type and COM settings. 

 See “Input COM Settings on the device connected to the QuickServer” on page 6 for correct COM settings per PLC Type. 

**-** Once a parameter value is changed as desired click Submit to save it. 

**-** The Active profiles section lists the currently active device profiles, including previous Web Configurator 

additions. This list is empty for new installations, or after clearing all configurations (see Figure 10 ). 

**-** To add an active profile to support a device, click the Add button under the Active Profiles heading. This will 

 present a drop-down box underneath the Current profile column that lists all the available profiles (see Figure 11 ). 

**-** Once the profile for the device has been selected from the drop-down list, enter the value of the Node-ID. 

**The first entered Node-ID must be set to “1” and be followed by sequential values.** 

**-** Then enter the Address Parameter. The Address is used to specify the tank, sensor or input number. This 

information can be found in the Veeder-Root ATG Report. 

**-** Tanks are addressed from 1-12. 

**-** Sensors are addressed from 1-64. 

**-** Inputs are addressed from 1-64. 

**-** Then press the “Submit” button to add the Profile to the list of devices to be configured. 

**-** Repeat this process until all the devices have been added. 

 NOTICE 

 NOTICE 

 NOTICE 

 NOTICE 


**Using QuickServer Web Configurator To Setup The Gateway** Selecting Profiles for Devices Connected to QuickServer 

 14 

 Figure 10. Web Configurator Showing No Active Profiles 

 Figure 11. Web Configurator Showing Available Profiles For Selection 


 15 

 Using QuickServer Web Configurator To Setup The Gateway Setting BACnet Parameters 

**-** Completed additions are listed under “Active Profiles” as shown the Figure 12 example. 

 Figure 12. Web Configurator Showing Active Profile Additions 

 Figure 12 shows a console with 3 tanks and 4 liquid sensors. The node IDs are sequential, starting with 1; the addresses match the console numbering of the tanks (i.e., there is no tank 3 set up in the console). The Node ID is used for the BACnet Object or Modbus Register (see Appendix B) and its address must match the device number programmed in the console. 

 System and Unknown Type points are automatically configured therefore no profile is required. Refer to Table B-1 and Table B-2 in Appendix B for a list of available points. 

###### Setting BACnet Parameters 

**-** Open the Web Configurator with the protocol set to BACnet in “Selecting The Desired Protocol Configuration”     on page 6. 

**-** Fill in the parameter values as needed (see Figure 13 ). 

**-** Enter the Veeder-Root PLC Type, COM settings and BACnet settings (Bac_device_id) 

 See See “Input COM Settings on the device connected to the QuickServer” on page 6. for correct COM settings per PLC Type. 

 The Bac_device_id field will display the current value (default = 50,000). The BACnet Device Instance can range from 1 to 4,194,303. 

**-** Once a parameter value is changed as desired click Submit to save it. 

 NOTICE 

###### 11 

 NOTICE 

 NOTICE 


**Using QuickServer Web Configurator To Setup The Gateway** Setting BACnet Parameters 

 16 

 Figure 13. Web Configurator with Protocol Set to BACnet 


 17 

 Using QuickServer Web Configurator To Setup The Gateway Ethernet Network Setting IP Address For Field Network 

###### Ethernet Network Setting IP Address For Field Network 

**-** After setting a local PC to the same subnet as the QuickServer (See “Connect The PC To QuickServer Via The     Ethernet Port” on page 12., open a web browser on the PC and enter the IP Address of the QuickServer; the     default address is 192.168.1.24. 

**-** The Web Configurator is displayed as the landing page (see Figure 14 ). 

**-** To access the FS-GUI, click on the “Diagnostics & Debugging” button in the bottom right corner of the page. 

 Figure 14. Web Configurator Screen With Active Profiles 

**-** From the FS-GUI landing page, click on “Setup” to expand the navigation tree and then select “Network     Settings” to access the IP Settings menu (see Figure 15 ). 

###### 12 


 Using QuickServer Web Configurator To Setup The Gateway Ethernet Network Setting IP Address For Field Network 

 18 

 Figure 15. Changing IP Address Via FS-GUI 

**-** Modify the IP Address (N1 IP Address field) of the QuickServer Ethernet port. 

**-** If necessary, change the Netmask (N1 Netmask field). 

**-** If necessary, change the IP Gateway (Default Gateway field). 

 If the QuickServer is connected to a managed switch/router, the IP Gateway of the QuickServer should be set to the IP Address of that managed switch/router. 

•Click the “System Restart” button at the bottom of the page to apply changes and restart the QuickServer. 

•Unplug Ethernet cable from PC and connect it to the network switch or router. 

•Record the IP Address assigned to the QuickServer for future reference. 

 The FieldPoP™ button (see Figure 15) allows users to connect to FieldPoP, Sierra Monitor’s device cloud solution for the IIoT. FieldPoP enables secure remote connection to field devices through a FieldServer and its local applications for configuration, management, maintenance. For more information about FieldPoP, refer to the FieldPoP™ Device Cloud Start-up Guide. 

 NOTICE 

 NOTICE 


 19 

##### How To Start The Installation Over: Clearing Profiles 

1. After setting a local PC to the same subnet as the QuickServer (“Connect The PC To QuickServer Via The 

Ethernet Port” on page 12 ), open a web browser on the PC and enter the IP Address of the QuickServer. 

2. If the IP Address of the QuickServer has been changed by previous configuration, the assigned IP Address 

must be gathered from the network administrator. 

3. The Web Configurator is displayed as the landing page. 

4. At the bottom-left of the page, click the “Clear Profiles and Restart” button. 

5. Once restart is complete, all past profiles discovered and/or added via Web configurator are deleted. The unit 

can now be reinstalled. 

###### BACnet EXPLORER NG 

A typical working example of a BACnet Explorer NG on a BACnet Network (see Figure 16 ). 

 Figure 16. BACnet Explorer NG On A BACnet Network 

**-** For additional details related to the BACnet Explorer NG, go to the Sierra Monitor website’s Resource Center 

and download the BACnet Explorer NG Start-Up Guide. 

**-** For purchasing information, look up the BACnet Explorer NG page on the Sierra Monitor website and click on 

the “BUY NOW” tab. 

Modbus RTU 

 Up to 32 BACnet MS/TP devices 

 Up to 32 BACnet MS/TP devices 

es 

BACnet Router 

BACnet Explorer NG 

BACnet MS/TP 

BACnet MS/TP 

BACnet MS/TP 

Modbus RTU 

 PC Connected to BACnet Explorer’s Web Browser 

Multi-Port Swtich 


 A-1 

##### Appendix A: Troubleshooting 

###### Lost Or Incorrect IP Address 

1. Ensure that FieldServer Toolbox is loaded onto the local PC. Otherwise, download the FieldServer Toolbox.zip 

via the Sierra Monitor Resource Center at https://us.msasafety.com/downloads#smc 

 Under the SMC & Fieldserver section, select FieldServer Toolbox: 

2. Extract the executable file and complete the installation. 

 Figure A-1. Ethernet Port Location 

3. Connect a standard CAT5 Ethernet cable between the user’s PC and QuickServer. 

4. Open the FS Toolbox. 

5. Check for the IP Address of the desired gateway. 

 Figure A-2. Check IP Address 

 NOTICE 

###### Ethernet port 


**Appendix A** Viewing Diagnostic Information 

 A-2 

6. If correcting the IP Address of the gateway: click the **Connect** button on the same row as the gateway (see 

 Figure A-2), this will open the Web Configurator. Follow the steps listed on pages 17-18 for setting up the gateway’s IP Address. 

###### Viewing Diagnostic Information 

1. Type the IP Address of the QuickServer into the web browser or use the FieldServer Toolbox to connect to the 

QuickServer. 

2. Click on Diagnostics and Debugging Button, then click on view, and then on connections. 

3. If there are any errors showing on the Connection page, refer to “Check Wiring And Settings” below for the 

relevant wiring and settings. 

 Figure A-3. Error Messages Screen 

###### Check Wiring And Settings 

- No COMS on Veeder-Root Interface side. If the Tx/Rx LEDs are not flashing rapidly then there is a COM issue. 

To fix this, check the following: 

**-** Visual observations of LEDs on QuickServer (See “LED Diagnostics For Communications Between     QuickServer And Devices” on page A-3.) 


**Appendix A** LED Diagnostics For Communications Between QuickServer And Devices 

 A-3 

**-** Check baud rate, parity, data bits, stop bits 

**-** Check device address 

**-** Verify wiring 

**-** Verify device is connected to the same subnet as the QuickServer 

**-** Verify the Modbus device was discovered in Web Configurator (See “Connecting to QuickServer Web     Configurator” on page 13.). 

- Field COM problems: 

**-** If Ethernet protocols are used, observe Ethernet LEDs on the QuickServer (See “LED Diagnostics For     Communications Between QuickServer And Devices” below). 

**-** Check DIP switch settings (using correct baud rate and device instance) 

**-** Verify IP Address setting 

**-** Verify wiring 

 If the problem persists, a Diagnostic Capture needs to be taken and sent to support. (See “Take Diagnostic Capture With The FieldServer Toolbox” on page A-4.). 

###### LED Diagnostics For Communications Between QuickServer And Devices 

Reference Figure A-4 and Table A-1 for understanding QuickServer ProtoNode diagnostic LEDs. 

 Figure A-4. Ethernet Port Location 

 Table A-1. Diagnostic LED Descriptions 

 LED Description 

 SPL The SPL LED will light if the unit is not getting a response from one or more of the configured devices. 

 RUN The RUN LED will start flashing 20 seconds after power indicating normal operation. 

 ERR 

 The SYS ERR LED will go on solid 15 seconds after power up. It will turn off after 5 seconds. A steady red light will indicate there is a system error on the unit. If this occurs, immediately report the related “system error” shown in the error screen of the GUI interface to support for evaluation. 

 RX 

 The RX LED will flash when a message is received on the serial port on the 6-pin connector. If the serial port is not used, this LED is non-operational. 

 TX 

 The TX LED will flash when a message is sent on the serial port on the 6-pin connector. If the serial port is not used, this LED is non-operational. 

 PWR This is the power light and should show steady green at all times when unit is powered. 

 NOTICE 

 SPL 

 RUN 

 ERR 

 RX 

 TX 

 PWR 


**Appendix A** Take Diagnostic Capture With The FieldServer Toolbox 

 A-4 

###### Take Diagnostic Capture With The FieldServer Toolbox 

 Once the Diagnostic Capture is complete, email it to technical support. The Diagnostic Capture will accelerate diagnosis of the problem. 

- Ensure the FS Toolbox is loaded onto the local PC. Otherwise, download the FieldServer Toolbox. Reference 

Figure A-1. 

- Extract the executable file and complete the installation. 

- Connect a standard CAT5 Ethernet cable between the PC and QuickServer. 

- Double click on the FS Toolbox Utility. 

1. Take a log 

a.Click on the diagnose icon of the desired device. 

 Figure A-5. FS Toolbox Utility Screen 

b.A new webpage will open. At the top of the page, under Full Diagnostics, select 

 If desired, the default capture period can be changed. 

c.When the capture period is finished, the “Diagnostic Test Complete” window will appear 

 NOTICE 

 NOTICE 


**Appendix A** Update Firmware 

 A-5 

2. Send Log 

a.Select download and a zip file is saved on the PC. 

b.Choose ‘Open’ to launch explorer and have it point directly at the correct folder. 

c.Send the Diagnostic zip file to technical support (technicalsupport@veeder.com). 

###### Update Firmware 

To load a new version of the firmware, follow these instructions: 

1. Extract and save the new file onto the local PC. 

2. Open a web browser and type the IP Address of the FieldServer in the address bar. 

**-** Default IP Address is 192.168.1.24 

**-** Use the FS Toolbox utility if the IP Address is unknown (See “Lost Or Incorrect IP Address” on page A-1.). 

3. Click on the “Diagnostics & Debugging” button. 

4. In the Navigation Tree on the left hand side, do the following: 

a.Click on “Setup” 

b.Click on “File Transfer” 

c.Click on the “General” tab 

5. In the General tab, click on “Choose Files” and select the web.img file extracted in Step 1. 

6. Click on the orange “Submit” button. 

###### Unknown Alarm Category 

If the ProtoNode receives an alarm and or device ID that it does not recognize, it will be stored in the DA_UNKCAT 

data array. Only the last device ID, Alarm ID, and address will be stored. 

###### Securing QuickServer With Passwords 

Access to the QuickServer can be restricted by enabling a password on the FS-GUI Passwords page – click 

Setup and then Passwords in the navigation panel. There are 2 access levels defined by 2 account names: Admin 

and User. 

- The Admin account has unrestricted access to the QuickServer. 

- The User account can view any QuickServer information, but cannot make any changes or restart the 

QuickServer. 

The password needs to be a minimum of eight characters and is case sensitive. 

If the password is lost, click cancel on the password authentication popup window (see Figure A-6), and email the 

password recovery token (see Figure A-7) to technical support to receive a temporary password from the support 

team. Access the QuickServer to set a new password. 


**Appendix A** Securing QuickServer With Passwords 

 A-6 

 Figure A-6. FS-GUI Passwords Page 

 Figure A-7. Password Recovery Page 


 B-1 

##### Appendix B: Vendor Information – Veeder-Root 

The ProtoNode provides capability to support any Veeder-Root serial command by defining customized map 

descriptors for any command or data type. Refer to Appendix A of the 577014-368 QuickServer Industrial Protocol 

Gateway Installation And Setup manual. Appendix A (Security Code) of the same manual also contains instructions 

on using a Security Code for the TLS communications port. 

###### Interface To BACnet & Modbus Tables 

 An X in the BACnet Object ID or Modbus Register represents a oneor two-digit number that equals the Node ID. In the Liquid Sensor X Fuel Alarm examples below, with a Node ID of 3, the X will be 3; for a Node ID of 11, the X will be 11. 

 Table B-1. System Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus 

 Table B-2. Unknown_Type Veeder-Root Interface Mappings To BACnet And Modbus 

 Point Name Node ID BACnet Object ID (X002) Modbus Register (10X02) Sensor X Fuel Alarm 3 3 002 10 3 02 Sensor X Fuel Alarm 11 11 002 10 11 02 

 Point Name BACnet Object Type BACnet Object ID Modbus Register Printer out of Paper BI 1 10001 Printer Error BI 2 10002 EEPROM Configuration Error BI 3 10003 Battery Off BI 4 10004 Too Many Tanks BI 5 10005 System Security Warning BI 6 10006 ROM Revision Warning BI 7 10007 Remote Display Communications Error BI 8 10008 Autodial Error BI 9 10009 Software Module Warning BI 10 10010 Tank Test Shutdown Warning BI 11 10011 Protective Cover Alarm BI 12 10012 BIR Shift Close Pending BI 13 10013 BIR Daily Close Pending BI 14 10014 PC(H8) Revision Warning BI 15 10015 System Self Test Error BI 16 10016 System Clock Incorrect Warning BI 17 10017 System Device Poll Timeout BI 18 10018 Maintenance Tracker NVMem BI 19 10019 Maintenance Tracker Communication Module BI 20 10020 Database Error BI 21 10021 File System Error BI 22 10022 BIR Status Warning BI 23 10023 VR Bus Power Outage Warning BI 24 10024 Software Upgrade Failure Alarm BI 25 10025 iButton Fault Warning BI 26 10026 iButton Fault Alarm BI 27 10027 Version Upgrade Available BI 28 10028 Expansion Box Unsupported BI 29 10029 

 Point Name BACnet Object Type BACnet Object ID Modbus Register Unknown Device Address AI 1 30001 Unknown Alarm Category AI 2 30002 Unknown Alarm Type AI 3 30003 

 NOTICE 


**Appendix B** Interface To BACnet & Modbus Tables 

 B-2 

 Table B-3. Tank Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus 

 Table B-4. Liquid Sensor Veeder-Root Interface Mappings To BACnet And Modbus 

 Point Name BACnet Object Type BACnet Object ID Modbus Register Tank X Inventory Volume AI X001 30X01/30X02 (FLOAT) Tank X Inventory TC Volume AI X002 30X03/30X04 (FLOAT) Tank X Inventory Ullage AI X003 30X05/30X06 (FLOAT) Tank X Inventory Height AI X004 30X07/30X08 (FLOAT) Tank X Inventory Water AI X005 30X09/30X10 (FLOAT) Tank X Inventory Temperature AI X006 30X11/30X12 (FLOAT) Tank X Inventory Water Volume AI X007 30X13/30X14(FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Product Code AI X008 30X15/30X16 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Number of Deliveries AI X009 30X17/30X18 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Start Time from 01/01/1970 AI X010 30X19/30X20 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Stop Time from 01/01/1970 AI X011 30X21/30X22 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Starting Volume AI X012 30X23/30X24 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Starting TC Volume AI X013 30X25/30X26 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Starting Water AI X014 30X27/30X28 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Starting Temp AI X015 30X29/30X30 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Ending Volume AI X016 30X31/30X32 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Ending TC Volume AI X017 30X33/30X34 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Ending Water AI X018 30X35/30X36 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Ending Temp AI X019 30X37/30X38 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Starting Height AI X020 30X39/30X40 (FLOAT) Tank X Delivery Ending Height AI X021 30X41/30X42 (FLOAT) Tank X Inventory User Ullage AI X022 30X43/30X44 (FLOAT) Tank X Tank Setup Warning BI X001 10X01 Tank X Tank Leak Alarm BI X002 10X02 Tank X High Water Alarm BI X003 10X03 Tank X Overfill Alarm BI X004 10X04 Tank X Low Limit Alarm BI X005 10X05 Tank X Sudden Loss Alarm BI X006 10X06 Tank X High Limit Alarm BI X007 10X07 Tank X Invalid Height Alarm BI X008 10X08 Tank X Probe Out Alarm BI X009 10X09 Tank X High Water Alarm BI X010 10X10 Tank X Delivery Needed BI X011 10X11 Tank X Maximum Level Alarm BI X012 10X12 Tank X Gross Leak Test Alarm BI X013 10X13 Tank X Periodic Leak Test Alarm BI X014 10X14 Tank X Annual Leak Test Alarm BI X015 10X15 Tank X Periodic Test Warning BI X016 10X16 Tank X Annual Test Warning BI X017 10X17 Tank X Periodic Test Alarm BI X018 10X18 Tank X Annual Test Alarm BI X019 10X19 Tank X Leak Test Active BI X020 10X20 Tank X No CSLD Idle Time Warning BI X021 10X21 Tank X Siphon Break Active Warning BI X022 10X22 Tank X CSLD Rate Increase Warning BI X023 10X23 Tank X AccuChart Calibration Warning BI X024 10X24 Tank X HRM Reconciliation Warning BI X025 10X25 Tank X HRM Reconciliation Alarm BI X026 10X26 Tank X Cold Temperature Warning BI X027 10X27 Tank X Missing Delivery Ticket Warning BI X028 10X28 Tank X Gross Leak Alarm BI X029 10X29 Tank X Delivery Density Warning BI X030 10X30 Tank X Density warning BI X031 10X31 Tank X Fuel Quality Alarm BI X032 10X32 Tank X Tank High Temperature Warning BI x033 10X33 Tank X Tank Low Temperature Warning BI x034 10X34 Tank X Density Offset Warning BI x035 10X35 

 Point Name BACnet Object Type BACnet Object ID Modbus Register Sensor X Setup Data Warning BI X001 10X01 Sensor X Fuel Alarm BI X002 10X02 Sensor X Out Alarm BI X003 10X03 Sensor X Short Alarm BI X004 10X04 


**Appendix B** Interface To BACnet & Modbus Tables 

 B-3 

 Table B-5. Input Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus 

 Table B-6. Type A Sensor Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus 

 Table B-7. Type B Sensor Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus 

 Table B-8. Vapor Sensor Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus 

 Table B-9. Groundwater Sensor Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus 

 Sensor X Water Alarm BI X005 10X05 Sensor X Water Out Alarm BI X006 10X06 Sensor X High Liquid Alarm BI X007 10X07 Sensor X Low Liquid Alarm BI X008 10X08 Sensor X Liquid Warning BI X009 10X09 

 Point Name BACnet Object Type BACnet Object ID Modbus Register Input X Input Setup Data Warning BI X001 10X01 Input X Input Normal BI X002 10X02 Input X Input Alarm BI X003 10X03 Input X Generator Off BI X004 10X04 Input X Generator On BI X005 10X05 Input X Input Out Alarm BI X006 10X06 

 Point Name BACnet Object Type BACnet Object ID Modbus Register Type-A Sensor X Setup Data Warning BI X001 10X01 Type-A Sensor X Fuel Alarm BI X002 10X02 Type-A Sensor X Out Alarm BI X003 10X03 Type-A Sensor X Short Alarm BI X004 10X04 Type-A Sensor X Water Alarm BI X005 10X05 

 Point Name BACnet Object Type BACnet Object ID Modbus Register Type-B Sensor X Setup Data Warning BI X001 10X01 Type-B Sensor X Fuel Alarm BI X002 10X02 Type-B Sensor X Out Alarm BI X003 10X03 Type-B Sensor X Short Alarm BI X004 10X04 Type-B Sensor X High Liquid Alarm BI X005 10X05 Type-B Sensor X Liquid Warning BI X006 10X06 

 Point Name BACnet Object Type BACnet Object ID Modbus Register Vapor Sensor X Setup Data Warninq BI X001 10X01 Vapor Sensor X Fuel Alarm BI X002 10X02 Vapor Sensor X Out Alarm BI X003 10X03 Vapor Sensor X Short Alarm BI X004 10X04 Vapor Sensor X Water Alarm BI X005 10X05 Vapor Sensor X Water Out Alarm BI X006 10X06 Vapor Sensor X High Liquid Alarm BI X007 10X07 Vapor Sensor X Low Liquid Alarm BI X008 10X08 Vapor Sensor X Liquid Warning BI X009 10X09 

 Point Name BACnet Object Type BACnet Object ID Modbus Register Groundwater Sensor X Setup Data Warninq BI X001 10X01 Groundwater Sensor X Fuel Alarm BI X002 10X02 Groundwater Sensor X Out Alarm BI X003 10X03 Groundwater Sensor X Short Alarm BI X004 10X04 Groundwater Sensor X Water Alarm BI X005 10X05 Groundwater Sensor X Water Out Alarm BI X006 10X06 Groundwater Sensor X High Liquid Alarm BI X007 10X07 Groundwater Sensor X Low Liquid Alarm BI X008 10X08 Groundwater Sensor X Liquid Warning BI X009 10X09 


**Appendix B** Interface To BACnet & Modbus Tables 

 B-4 

 Table B-10. MAG Sensor Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus 

 Table B-11. Smart Sensor Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus 

 Table B-12. PLLD Veeder-Root Interface To BACnet And Modbus 

 Point Name BACnet Object Type BACnet Object ID Modbus Register MAG Sensor X Setup Data Warninq BI X001 10X01 MAG Sensor X Communication Alarm BI X002 10X02 MAG Sensor X Fault Alarm BI X003 10X03 MAG Sensor X Fuel Warning BI X004 10X04 MAG Sensor X Fuel Alarm BI X005 10X05 MAG Sensor X Water Warning BI X006 10X06 MAG Sensor X Water Alarm BI X007 10X07 MAG Sensor X High Liquid Warning BI X008 10X08 MAG Sensor X High Liquid Alarm BI X009 10X09 MAG Sensor X Low Liquid Warning BI X010 10X10 MAG Sensor X Low Liquid Alarm BI X011 10X11 MAG Sensor X Temperature Warning BI X012 10X12 MAG Sensor X Relay Active BI X013 10X13 MAG Sensor X Install Alarm BI X014 10X14 

 Point Name BACnet Object Type BACnet Object ID Modbus Register Smart Sensor X Setup Data Warninq BI X001 10X01 Smart Sensor X Communication Alarm BI X002 10X02 Smart Sensor X Fault Alarm BI X003 10X03 Smart Sensor X Fuel Warning BI X004 10X04 Smart Sensor X Fuel Alarm BI X005 10X05 Smart Sensor X Water Warning BI X006 10X06 Smart Sensor X Water Alarm BI X007 10X07 Smart Sensor X High Liquid Warning BI X008 10X08 Smart Sensor X High Liquid Alarm BI X009 10X09 Smart Sensor X Low Liquid Warning BI X010 10X10 Smart Sensor X Low Liquid Alarm BI X011 10X11 Smart Sensor X Temperature Warning BI X012 10X12 Smart Sensor X Relay Active X013 10X13 Smart Sensor X Install Alarm X014 10X14 Smart Sensor X Fault Warning X015 10X15 Smart Sensor X Vacuum Warning X016 10X16 Smart Sensor X No Vacuum Warning X017 10X17 

 Point Name BACnet Object Type BACnet Object ID Modbus Register PLLD X Setup Data Warninq BI X001 10X01 PLLD X Gross Test Fail Alarm BI X002 10X02 PLLD X Annual Test Fail Alarm BI X003 10X03 PLLD X Periodic Test Needed Warning BI X004 10X04 PLLD X Periodic Test Needed Alarm BI X005 10X05 PLLD X Sensor Open Alarm BI X006 10X06 PLLD X High Pressure Alarm BI X007 10X07 PLLD X Shutdown Alarm BI X008 10X08 PLLD X High Pressure Warning BI X009 10X09 PLLD X Continuous Handle On Warning BI X010 10X10 PLLD X Periodic Test Fail Alarm BI X011 10X11 PLLD X Annual Test Needed Warning BI X012 10X12 PLLD X Annual Test Needed Alarm BI X013 10X13 PLLD X Low Pressure Alarm BI X014 10X14 PLLD X Sensor Short Alarm BI X015 10X15 PLLD X Continuous Handle On Alarm BI X016 10X16 PLLD X Fuel Out Alarm BI X017 10X17 PLLD X Line Equipment Alarm BI X018 10X18 PLLD X Gross Test Needed Alarm BI X019 10X19 


 C-1 

##### Appendix C: “A” Bank DIP Switch Settings 

 Table C-1. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 1-25 

 Address A0 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 

 1 On Off Off Off Off Off Off 

 2 Off On Off Off Off Off Off 

 3 On On Off Off Off Off Off 

 4 Off Off On Off Off Off Off 

 5 On Off On Off Off Off Off 

 6 Off On On Off Off Off Off 

 7 On On On Off Off Off Off 

 8 Off Off Off On Off Off Off 

 9 On Off Off On Off Off Off 

 10 Off On Off On Off Off Off 

 11 On On Off On Off Off Off 

 12 Off Off On On Off Off Off 

 13 On Off On On Off Off Off 

 14 Off On On On Off Off Off 

 15 On On On On Off Off Off 

 16 Off Off Off Off On Off Off 

 17 On Off Off Off On Off Off 

 18 Off On Off Off On Off Off 

 19 On On Off Off On Off Off 

 20 Off Off On Off On Off Off 

 21 On Off On Off On Off Off 

 22 Off On On Off On Off Off 

 23 On On On Off On Off Off 

 24 Off Off Off On On Off Off 

 25 On Off Off On On Off Off 


**Appendix C** 

 C-2 

 Table C-2. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 26-50 

 Address A0 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 

 26 Off On Off On On Off Off 

 27 On On Off On On Off Off 

 28 Off Off On On On Off Off 

 29 On Off On On On Off Off 

 30 Off On On On On Off Off 

 31 On On On On On Off Off 

 32 Off Off Off Off Off On Off 

 33 On Off Off Off Off On Off 

 34 Off On Off Off Off On Off 

 35 On On Off Off Off On Off 

 36 Off Off On Off Off On Off 

 37 On Off On Off Off On Off 

 38 Off On On Off Off On Off 

 39 On On On Off Off On Off 

 40 Off Off Off On Off On Off 

 41 On Off Off On Off On Off 

 42 Off On Off On Off On Off 

 43 On On Off On Off On Off 

 44 Off Off On On Off On Off 

 45 On Off On On Off On Off 

 46 Off On On On Off On Off 

 47 On On On On Off On Off 

 48 Off Off Off Off On On Off 

 49 On Off Off Off On On Off 

 50 Off On Off Off On On Off 


**Appendix C** 

 C-3 

 Table C-3. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 51 75 

 Address A0 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 

 51 On On Off Off On On Off 

 52 Off Off On Off On On Off 

 53 On Off On Off On On Off 

 54 Off On On Off On On Off 

 55 On On On Off On On Off 

 56 Off Off Off On On On Off 

 57 On Off Off On On On Off 

 58 Off On Off On On On Off 

 59 On On Off On On On Off 

 60 Off Off On On On On Off 

 61 On Off On On On On Off 

 62 Off On On On On On Off 

 63 On On On On On On Off 

 64 Off Off Off Off Off Off On 

 65 On Off Off Off Off Off On 

 66 Off On Off Off Off Off On 

 67 On On Off Off Off Off On 

 68 Off Off On Off Off Off On 

 69 On Off On Off Off Off On 

 70 Off On On Off Off Off On 

 71 On On On Off Off Off On 

 72 Off Off Off On Off Off On 

 73 On Off Off On Off Off On 

 74 Off On Off On Off Off On 

 75 On On Off On Off Off On 


**Appendix C** 

 C-4 

 Table C-4. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 76 100 

 Address A0 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 

 76 Off Off On On Off Off On 

 77 On Off On On Off Off On 

 78 Off On On On Off Off On 

 79 On On On On Off Off On 

 80 Off Off Off Off On Off On 

 81 On Off Off Off On Off On 

 82 Off On Off Off On Off On 

 83 On On Off Off On Off On 

 84 Off Off On Off On Off On 

 85 On Off On Off On Off On 

 86 Off On On Off On Off On 

 87 On On On Off On Off On 

 88 Off Off Off On On Off On 

 89 On Off Off On On Off On 

 90 Off On Off On On Off On 

 91 On On Off On On Off On 

 92 Off Off On On On Off On 

 93 On Off On On On Off On 

 94 Off On On On On Off On 

 95 On On On On On Off On 

 96 Off Off Off Off Off On On 

 97 On Off Off Off Off On On 

 98 Off On Off Off Off On On 

 99 On On Off Off Off On On 

 100 Off Off On Off Off On On 


**Appendix C** 

 C-5 

 Table C-5. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 101-125 

 Address A0 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 

 101 On Off On Off Off On On 

 102 Off On On Off Off On On 

 103 On On On Off Off On On 

 104 Off Off Off On Off On On 

 105 On Off Off On Off On On 

 106 Off On Off On Off On On 

 107 On On Off On Off On On 

 108 Off Off On On Off On On 

 109 On Off On On Off On On 

 110 Off On On On Off On On 

 111 On On On On Off On On 

 112 Off Off Off Off On On On 

 113 On Off Off Off On On On 

 114 Off On Off Off On On On 

 115 On On Off Off On On On 

 116 Off Off On Off On On On 

 117 On Off On Off On On On 

 118 Off On On Off On On On 

 119 On On On Off On On On 

 120 Off Off Off On On On On 

 121 On Off Off On On On On 

 122 Off On Off On On On On 

 123 On On Off On On On On 

 124 Off Off On On On On On 

 125 On Off On On On On On 


**Appendix C** 

 C-6 

 Table C-6. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 126 150 

 Address A0 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 

 126 Off On On On On On On 

 127 On On On On On On On 

 128 Off Off Off Off Off Off Off 

 129 On Off Off Off Off Off Off 

 130 Off On Off Off Off Off Off 

 131 On On Off Off Off Off Off 

 132 Off Off On Off Off Off Off 

 133 On Off On Off Off Off Off 

 134 Off On On Off Off Off Off 

 135 On On On Off Off Off Off 

 136 Off Off Off On Off Off Off 

 137 On Off Off On Off Off Off 

 138 Off On Off On Off Off Off 

 139 On On Off On Off Off Off 

 140 Off Off On On Off Off Off 

 141 On Off On On Off Off Off 

 142 Off On On On Off Off Off 

 143 On On On On Off Off Off 

 144 Off Off Off Off On Off Off 

 145 On Off Off Off On Off Off 

 146 Off On Off Off On Off Off 

 147 On On Off Off On Off Off 

 148 Off Off On Off On Off Off 

 149 On Off On Off On Off Off 

 150 Off On On Off On Off Off 


**Appendix C** 

 C-7 

 Table C-7. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 151 175 

 Address A0 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 

 151 On On On Off On Off Off 

 152 Off Off Off On On Off Off 

 153 On Off Off On On Off Off 

 154 Off On Off On On Off Off 

 155 On On Off On On Off Off 

 156 Off Off On On On Off Off 

 157 On Off On On On Off Off 

 158 Off On On On On Off Off 

 159 On On On On On Off Off 

 160 Off Off Off Off Off On Off 

 161 On Off Off Off Off On Off 

 162 Off On Off Off Off On Off 

 163 On On Off Off Off On Off 

 164 Off Off On Off Off On Off 

 165 On Off On Off Off On Off 

 166 Off On On Off Off On Off 

 167 On On On Off Off On Off 

 168 Off Off Off On Off On Off 

 169 On Off Off On Off On Off 

 170 Off On Off On Off On Off 

 171 On On Off On Off On Off 

 172 Off Off On On Off On Off 

 173 On Off On On Off On Off 

 174 Off On On On Off On Off 

 175 On On On On Off On Off 


**Appendix C** 

 C-8 

 Table C-8. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 176 200 

 Address A0 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 

 176 Off Off Off Off On On Off 

 177 On Off Off Off On On Off 

 178 Off On Off Off On On Off 

 179 On On Off Off On On Off 

 180 Off Off On Off On On Off 

 181 On Off On Off On On Off 

 182 Off On On Off On On Off 

 183 On On On Off On On Off 

 184 Off Off Off On On On Off 

 185 On Off Off On On On Off 

 186 Off On Off On On On Off 

 187 On On Off On On On Off 

 188 Off Off On On On On Off 

 189 On Off On On On On Off 

 190 Off On On On On On Off 

 191 On On On On On On Off 

 192 Off Off Off Off Off Off On 

 193 On Off Off Off Off Off On 

 194 Off On Off Off Off Off On 

 195 On On Off Off Off Off On 

 196 Off Off On Off Off Off On 

 197 On Off On Off Off Off On 

 198 Off On On Off Off Off On 

 199 On On On Off Off Off On 

 200 Off Off Off On Off Off On 


**Appendix C** 

 C-9 

 Table C-9. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 201 225 

 Address A0 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 

 201 On Off Off On Off Off On 

 202 Off On Off On Off Off On 

 203 On On Off On Off Off On 

 204 Off Off On On Off Off On 

 205 On Off On On Off Off On 

 206 Off On On On Off Off On 

 207 On On On On Off Off On 

 208 Off Off Off Off On Off On 

 209 On Off Off Off On Off On 

 210 Off On Off Off On Off On 

 211 On On Off Off On Off On 

 212 Off Off On Off On Off On 

 213 On Off On Off On Off On 

 214 Off On On Off On Off On 

 215 On On On Off On Off On 

 216 Off Off Off On On Off On 

 217 On Off Off On On Off On 

 218 Off On Off On On Off On 

 219 On On Off On On Off On 

 220 Off Off On On On Off On 

 221 On Off On On On Off On 

 222 Off On On On On Off On 

 223 On On On On On Off On 

 224 Off Off Off Off Off On On 

 225 On Off Off Off Off On On 


**Appendix C** 

 C-10 

 Table C-10. A Bank DIP Switch Settings For Addresses 226-255 

 Address A0 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 

 226 Off On Off Off Off On On 

 227 On On Off Off Off On On 

 228 Off Off On Off Off On On 

 229 On Off On Off Off On On 

 230 Off On On Off Off On On 

 231 On On On Off Off On On 

 232 Off Off Off On Off On On 

 233 On Off Off On Off On On 

 234 Off On Off On Off On On 

 235 On On Off On Off On On 

 236 Off Off On On Off On On 

 237 On Off On On Off On On 

 238 Off On On On Off On On 

 239 On On On On Off On On 

 240 Off Off Off Off On On On 

 241 On Off Off Off On On On 

 242 Off On Off Off On On On 

 243 On On Off Off On On On 

 244 Off Off On Off On On On 

 245 On Off On Off On On On 

 246 Off On On Off On On On 

 247 On On On Off On On On 

 248 Off Off Off On On On On 

 249 On Off Off On On On On 

 250 Off On Off On On On On 

 251 On On Off On On On On 

 252 Off Off On On On On On 

 253 On Off On On On On On 

 254 Off On On On On On On 

 255 On On On On On On On 


 D-1 

##### Appendix D: Reference 

###### Specifications 

**Specifications subject to change without notice.** 

###### Compliance With UL Regulations 

For UL compliance, the following instructions must be met when operating QuickServer. 

- The units shall be powered by listed LPS or Class 2 power supply suited to the expected operating temperature 

range. 

- The interconnecting power connector and power cable shall: 

**-** Comply with local electrical code 

 Table D-1. QuickServer ProtoNode Specifications 

 Item Description 

 Electrical Connections 

 One 6-pin Phoenix connector with RS-232 port (+/-/gnd) and Power port (+/-/Frame-gnd) One 3-pin Phoenix connector with RS-485 port (+/-/gnd) One Ethernet 10/100 BaseT port 

 Approvals 

 CE Certified; TUV approved to UL 916, EN 60950-1, EN 50491-3 and CSA C22-2 standards; FCC Class A Part 15; DNP 3.0 Conformance Tested; RoHS Compliant; CSA 205 Approved 

 BTL Marked 

 Power Requirements Multi-mode power adapter 9-30V DC or 12 24V AC 

 Physical Dimensions 11.5 cm L x 8.3 cm W x 4.1 cm H (4.5 x 3.2 x 1.6 in) 

 Weight 0.2 kg (0.4 lbs) 

 Operating Temperature -40°C o 75°C (-40°F to 167°F) 

 Surge Suppression EN61000-4-2 ESD EN61000-4-3 EMC EN61000-4-4 EFT 

 Humidity 5 90% RH (non-condensing) 

 NOTICE 


**Appendix D** Certifications BTL Mark BACnet® Testing Laboratory 

 D-2 

**-** Be suited to the expected operating temperature range 

**-** Meet the current and voltage rating for QuickServer 

- Furthermore, the interconnecting power cable shall: 

**-** Be of length not exceeding 3.05m (118.3”) 

**-** Be constructed of materials rated VW-1, FT-1 or better 

- If the unit is to be installed in an operating environment with a temperature above 65 °C, it should be installed in 

a Restricted Access Area requiring a key or a special tool to gain access. 

- This device must not be connected to a LAN segment with outdoor wiring. 

###### Certifications BTL Mark BACnet® Testing Laboratory 

 BACnet is a registered trademark of ASHRAE 

 The BTL Mark on QuickServer is a symbol that indicates that a product has passed a series of rigorous tests conducted by an independent laboratory which verifies that the product correctly implements the BACnet features claimed in the listing. The mark is a symbol of a high-quality BACnet product. Go to http://www.BACnetInternational.net for more information about the BACnet Testing Laboratory. Click here for the BACnet PIC Statement. 

 NOTICE 



