# Policy 

## Procurement and Purchasing 


 ISMS-DOC-08-07 Procurement and Purchasing 01 Final 

### Revision history 

#### VERSION DATE REVISION AUTHOR SUMMARY OF CHANGES 

 1 02/21/2024 Frank Marshall Original document 

### Distribution 

#### NAME TITLE 

 Global IP Networks All staff CloudKey All staff Verdyne All staff 

### Approval 

#### NAME POSITION SIGNATURE DATE 

 Frank Marshall Process Improvement Manager 

#### 02/22/2024 

#### DOCUMENT 

#### CLASSIFICATION 

 Protected | Internal Use Policy DOCUMENT REF ISMS-DOC-08-07 Procurement and Purchasing 01 Final VERSION 1 DATED 02/24/2024 DOCUMENT AUTHOR Frank Marshall DOCUMENT OWNER Frank Marshall 


 ISMS-DOC-08-07 Procurement and Purchasing 01 Final 

### Contents 

Introduction 1 Scope 2 Roles 3 Method 4 Purchase Forms 5 Purchase logs 6 Reimbursements 


 ISMS-DOC-08-07 Procurement and Purchasing 01 Final 

### Introduction 

This policy sets guidelines on how to document and process company procurements and purchases. This is to ensure that all procurements and purchases made using company accounts are properly approved and accounted for. The following policies and procedures are relevant to this document: Procurement and Purchasing Procedure 

## 1 Scope 

This policy is to be followed for all internal and external purchases made using company owned accounts and payment methods. It may also be followed to account for any procurements and purchases made on personal accounts that required reimbursement. 

## 2 Roles 

The following roles are defined below in regards to this policy and corresponding procedure. Initiator This is an employee that is requesting a procurement or purchase due to lacking the means and or authority to fulfill the procurement and or purchase in question. Purchaser This is an employee that has the means to fulfill the procurement and purchase in question. Authorizer This is an employee that can authorize the procurement and or purchase in question. Note that if the initiator, purchaser, and authorizer are the same employee, then a request does not need to be created. The only step required in this case is the submission of a purchase form as defined in the following sections. An exception to this is when a procurement and or purchase is to be made regarding an external source such as a client. These must be initiated via a request from the client using the appropriate ticketing system. 

## 3 Method 

Procurement and purchasing requests are to be made and processed using the internal ticketing system defined in the Procurement and Purchasing Procedure document. Once the purchase(s) is made, the following forms will be used to document the purchase details. Internal purchase form procurements and purchases made for internal company use 


ISMS-DOC-08-07 Procurement and Purchasing 01 Final External purchase form procurements and purchases made for external sources such as clients, vendors, etc. Once the form has been submitted, an entry will be created on the corresponding purchase log that is tied to the form that was used. These logs are listed below: Internal purchase log External purchase log Note that access to these logs is limited. 

## 4 Purchase Forms 

Purchase forms will be used to document purchase details. It is important to retain purchase receipts and upload them to the purchase forms. When filling out the purchase forms, it is required to create a new form entry for each purchase/ order number. For orders that consist of multiple lines of items, each item is to be listed line by line in the item description and quantity fields. See below: 

## 5 Purchase logs 

These purchase logs shall act as a record of all purchase information generated by the purchase forms. Modification to these records is to be restricted only to authorized personnel. 

## 6 Reimbursements 

In the case that a procurement or purchase was necessary using an employee’s personal account, reimbursement should be requested by the employee. If the request for reimbursement cannot be made using the purchase form used to document the 


ISMS-DOC-08-07 Procurement and Purchasing 01 Final purchase details, then correspondence should be made by that employee to their direct manager for assistance. It is the employee’s responsibility to request reimbursement. 


